hello everyone and welcome this is the
seventh edition already of the Ines
Organic Q&A a while ago I got a question
from a follower named Sophia below my
video about stoicism and not giving a
you know what this particular video is
about caring less about the things that
do not matter so we can focus on the
things that do so Sophia asked do you
plan to make the next video about what
truly matters end quote
I think it's quite a profound question
and really one of the big life questions
that many philosophers have been trying
to answer for ages my simple answer to
this question would be it's up to you it
also could be the case that you have a
certain religion or lifestyle that tells
you what truly matters which is fine -
again it's up to the individual to
embark on the religious train as well as
following a certain philosophy since the
video you've commented on is about stoic
philosophy it makes sense to talk about
what truly matters to the Stoics
first of all I want to thank big woolly
bastard mark and bhanu koti Teja i don't
know if i pronounces correctly for your
support on patreon thank you guys
now let's dive in so what does truly
matter for stoic Epictetus states that
we shouldn't worry about the things that
are not in our control which are
basically external what's in our control
are our own actions or the position we
take towards the things we cannot
control the things within our control
are truly important for the individual
this doesn't mean that the external
things don't matter at all it's just
that we shouldn't let our well-being
depend on them because we can't rely on
them so is what truly matters for a
stoical what he or she can control well
it's a bit more complicated one of the
three pillars of stoicism are the stoic
ethics according to these ethics the
main goal of a stoic is living in
agreement with nature and there's only
one way to accomplish that which is a
life of virtue if we combine this with
the dichotomy of control we can say that
living virtuously is completely within
our control thus taking action in order
to live a life of virtue is what truly
matters to the stoic let's get a bit
deeper into what this means
stoic virtue can be subdivided into four
elements wisdom courage moderation and
justice according to the internet
encyclopedia of philosophy wisdom can be
subdivided into good sense good
calculation quick-wittedness discretion
and resourcefulness justice into piety
honesty equity and fair dealing courage
into endurance confidence
high-mindedness cheerfulness and
industriousness and moderation into good
discipline seem leanness modesty and
self-control as we can see these are all
traits that we can adhere to or at least
pursue in ourselves regardless of the
situation we're in no matter if you're
rich or poor free or imprisoned
religious or atheist if we do these well
enough we'll be living in agreement with
nature and reach a state of eudaimonia
which is a state of flourishing an
active engaging way of life with
happiness as a byproduct personally I
think this is profound because many
people seek happiness which is actually
a very vague concept so we could say
that feeling great satisfied strong
connected or whatever happiness means to
people is simply a result of living
virtuously now there's literally a world
full of things that are not in our
control but can be great additions and
even supporting elements of living a
life of virtue it's fine to pursue them
as long as they don't become the main
goal among these things are wealth
status the body a good reputation and
intimacy a cynic would reject all of
them and so would an ascetic but the
Stoics saw that human beings are
naturally inclined to these things so
purposefully cutting ourselves off from
them would be against nature
moreover a wealthy person could use his
or her position to enhance justice in
the community and basically make a
change also this person is in the ideal
position to practice moderation because
the temptations are plentiful
hence it's not always that difficult to
moderate for someone that's poor because
this person probably doesn't have much
of a choice
we are rich however you have access to
lots of earthly pleasures basically
anything money and power can buy the
great stoic example of this is Emperor
Marcus Aurelius was the most powerful
man of his time and could get any woman
he wanted throw the biggest parties and
have his subordinates tortured and
killed instead he chose a life of virtue
and used his power to do good during his
reign he boosted the economy promoted
free speech and education and even
though he waged Wars he did not rejoice
in killing perhaps his biggest
achievement was his legacy meditations
so I hope this answers your question
Sophia the patreon edition of the Q&A is
now live on my patreon page in this
edition I will answer questions about
individuation stoicism and more have a
great day everyone and thank you for
what
[Music]
you